riddle me this if a doy VR nerd turned
controversial arms dealer were to make a
game console what game console would he
make Wonder no more for I have the
answer inside this basic Jan Sport
backpack it is the mod retoch chromatic
from Palmer lucky perhaps best known for
his role in the creation of the Oculus
Rift its features include enjoying a
family of newly created games on
chromatic cartridges as well as
remastered versions of your favorite
classics it is compatible with original
Game Boy and Game Boy Color cartridges
and it has a bright enough screen that
you can use it yes my friends outside
but before we get to this I want to have
a look at this Lisa Frank esque tiger
folio oh wow that's their review guide
Lisa Frank that's that brand that made
the super bright colored stationer back
in the 90s is that correct yeah okay hi
there we hope this feels like Christmas
morning when you were a kid how old is
Palmer lucky is he even old enough to
have had a Game Boy as a kid the history
of gaming grade level 6th to e8th grade
this is a very cute reviewer guide they
don't really expect me to do all this
work though do they all right is there
anything else in here does it come with
this backpack is that part of the whole
like first edition
thing okay well we're not sure let's
have a look at this thing it's bundled
with chromatic Tetris which is
apparently a recreation of the original
Tetris and it comes with a sapphire
glass display cover I mean that does
feel markedly higher quality than the
scuff plastic that was on the original
Game Boy wow the chassis ooh it is
amazing how the material Choice affects
the feel of a device okay so you go from
cheap devices which use plastic and are
kind of down here to like oh premium
devices which use stainless steel or
aluminum and feel like this to more
exotic metals that feel more like
plastic it uses a magnesium alloy
chassis that makes it I wouldn't say
light
because anytime you've got three ablea
batteries and something it's not going
to be especially light but it feels
lightish and it's not cold to the touch
you've got a USBC port at the bottom as
well as a headphone jack this USBC Port
apparently supports video out and
speaking of video one of the most
special things about the device is that
the resolution of the display matches
the original Game Boy meaning that
you're not going to get any
approximations of the original pixel art
it should be absolutely perfect we've
got support for the Link cable which is
possible because they're using an fpga
Recreation of the original processor
we've got a couple of wrist strap Loops
here depending on whether you prefer to
apply it on the left or the right hand
side we've got a volume button there's a
menu button on the side right here your
traditional AB select start and d-pad
d-pad feels pretty good up at the top we
got our power switch as well as an IR
transceiver so it's kind of a mashup of
original Game Boy features and Game Boy
Color features so if you want to trade
your Pokemon it'll I guess depend on
what generation of gain you're using oh
there is one thing I didn't mention
under the battery cover these are
rechargeable batteries oh they're not it
comes with alkaline battery really at
this price it comes with alkaline
batteries it's funny Palmer says that
this was a passion project he's losing
money on this thing but at 220 bucks I
don't know anyway appar if you replace
these with nickel metal hydrides they
can charge inside the device using the
USBC Port which is actually kind of a
nice feature oh that's a really nice
rubber battery retention thing it does
feel very premium the issue is that it
also cost premium we've got some
comparison devices we're going to be
looking at in a moment here anyway
inside we've got chromatic Tetris which
looks an awful lot like a Tetris cart
made in Mexico as well as a cute little
Tetris um complication isn't that what
Apple calls the
like cute little uh things yeah charms
charms that's the word I'm looking for
Charming oh look at that there's a quick
start guide there let's fire it up and
let's also meet the
contenders after the segue to our
sponsor hem their portable I steady V3
gimbal makes filming on your phone a
whole lot easier with Nifty features
like using AI to ensure you have
consistently centered shots and a fill
light with three three different color
temperatures to keep things clear even
in low light and of course since it's a
gimbal you can use it handheld with the
extension Rod or you can set it up in
tripod mode and control it with a
detachable remote plus the Hem Joy app
offers tailored recommendations for
camera movement and techniques based on
popular scenes so check it out at the
link in the video description all right
what do we got here we got the original
game boy boy does it ever look bulky
compared to well everything else we've
got a Game Boy Pocket okay oh it's a
little bigger than the pocket uh We've
also got the analog pocket I can't tell
you who's going to win but uh it's going
to be the pocket and then we've got uh
oh what was this thing called again
funny playing game boy this was that one
that we built here on short circuit with
the little kit all right what do we
start with I mean I guess we got to
start with their included Tetris game
let's give a shot all right apparently
they worked with cost on color matched
headphones but I don't have those so
we're going to use the built-in speaker
well the speaker is a lot better than
the original game boy I'll tell you that
much already without even listening to
them side by side I don't even know what
the different modes mean to be honest
with you I was never into Tetris which
is about to become super
apparent up yeah so up does that yeah I
uh don't even really know the controls
so there's that uh how do I oh yeah
there we go uh yeah sure um oh yeah
sorry button F yeah yeah button F button
feel seems
good uh oh that was not a good move
Please Don't Judge Me too harshly I need
yes yes I need the stick hey there we go
I'm sorry am I supposed to be making a
video Zero complaints nice and
tactile say what you will about Palmer
lucky
um if he built the device for himself he
cared about it oops I might have created
another dependency but I got got it I
got it right away I can't wait for the
comment section on this video to just be
like is L St a gamer the answer is no uh
oh my God they come so fast I need the
stick yes I got the stick it's too
hard that's the best I could do great
button feel um the sound even though I
had it turned down is awesome compared
to the original Game Boy dude very very
playable let's try their weird
Recreation cartridge in another console
okay what are the odds this
works cuz clearly if it's an fpga device
it should be basically functionally a
Game Boy but it also clearly isn't
functionally a Game Boy it's got the
menu button it's got the IR thing and
stuff
[Applause]
so remember when I said the speaker was
better on the mod
retro you can kind of make it out I
don't remember the game boy being this
bad I think our game boy is uh has seen
better days which is honestly part of
the reason that devices like this are so
popular because even if you wanted the
original experience it's degraded so
much in some cases that that original
experience might not really exist um
it's shocking to me how much better the
speakers can sound firing down into your
palm as opposed to toward your face but
really can really really can okay so
that's the Game Boy um that's clearly
not winning our challenge today um why
don't we try this guy all right funny
playing you're up all other things being
equal I would absolutely take the
chromatic but all other things are not
equal and the chromatic is uh over
double the price if I just wanted to
Tool around and play Game Boy games
because I think I think that's something
that we have to kind of be honest with
ourselves are we going to sit down and
like play this game like the way we used
to when we were kids where we're going
to play it for hours every week
no probably not some people yes
obviously there's people that are still
very very into Tetris but most people
this is a this is a novelty purchase you
know what I mean the screen is another
drawback to this device it's definitely
not as bright it's not as vibrant
however once again is it vibranter and
brighter enough that I'd be willing to
pay
double for the chromatic that's
tough oh my God yep block out okay you
know what I want to see the chromatic at
Max brightness real quick
here dude one of the design goals was
apparently to make it playable outside
which is something that the original
Game Boy really struggled with man I'm
usually kind of a just emulate guy but I
got to say the resolution matched
display really does make the old pixel
art look better I was not expecting to
notice that big of a difference again
whether we're talking brightness or
button feel or whatever double the price
that's a tall order but it is better
let's go for something a little more
different it looks like it's like
artificially smoothed or something you
know yeah it really does not look as
good now I could fix a lot of what looks
kind of nasty about this filters but
it's not the same it's never going to be
quite the same let's try some filters on
this display it's high enough resolution
that theoretically that should more
closely approximate the original console
the buttons also still aren't as good
that's something that the mod retro team
absolutely nailed the buttons they are
really really good with that said am I
actually having any less fun right now
no yeah so far man there's no real
question for me at this price I would
just get an analog pocket because then I
can play more than just Game Boy and
Game Boy Color games did I mention that
this thing only plays Game Boy and Game
Boy Color games and then you know some
re-releases they say there's some new
releases coming games that were like
cancelled toward the end of the life of
the original game boy okay how about the
original
pocket man that sound it is cool that
these work in the original consoles
which I guess is pretty cool for someone
who wants to buy the re-releases and
then actually play them in a Game Boy
man it really doesn't help that it's a
little chilly in the studio you can see
when I move it down it's like the poor
LCD is like let's try a different game
what do we want to play what should I
play all right Super Mario Land let's
go that's a it's not a very good
interface it says 3 to
one as the opposite of whatever it is
that you like you you can't tell if
you're three to oneing anything
wow you can see it actually like slows
down a little bit sometimes just like
the original Hardware would authentic
leg whatever I got this
easy and I'm
dead time for a Game Boy Color game oh
man this uh this little nubbin on the
back I understand why they had to do it
because this is made of metal so you
can't just have a little like flexible
tab but that sits like right where I
want my finger or my pinky I mean I
could work around it I could work around
it but it's not not my
favorite looks real
good I'm not really sure what else there
is to say about it at this point if what
you want is a machine that does
absolutely nothing but play Game Boy
games and Game Boy Color games with much
greater Fidelity than the original game
boy or Game Boy Color then that's pretty
cool you can get one of these it's as
true to the original consoles while also
being better than the original consoles
as you can get thanks to that display
however if you're willing to compromise
on a few things and you like getting
benefits for that the analog pocket
really is a way more compelling option I
mean it's got a bigger screen it's also
very bright even if it's not quite as
bright it's got compatibility for way
more game systems including original
cartridge compatibility which is one of
the things that's nice about the mod
retro and if you want to spend half as
much this is a very compelling option
too from funny playing like I'd play on
this does it really matter
not to me to you it might subscribe to
Short Circuit